### Main method
* In order for a class to be run, it needs a main method
* Java will begin the execution with the first line of the main method
* The keyword 'static' means that the method is defined for the class, not for the objects in the class
```java
public class MyClass{
	public static void main(String args[]){
	}
}
```

### Class: Basics
* A **class** is a type of data, whereas an object is a piece (instance) of that data
* A good analogy will be comparing classes to factories and objects to the products produced by the factories
* Each object can be customised without affecting other objects that belong to the same class
* **Member Variables (aka instance variables)**: Variables that exist throughout the class (Declared outside each method but within the definition of the class)
* **Constructor**:  The method that gets called when an object is created. (Note: it doesn't have a return type)
* **this**: "this" refers to the calling object. For example, the constructor of Car assigns the value 1998 to the object named car1, which is referred to as "this"
* **new**: creates a new instance of an object, allocates memory to store that object, and then returns a reference(address to the location in memory where the object is stored) to the newly created object

### Method overloading
* An example of polymorphism (poly: many, morph: form)
* It allows you to create multiple versions of a method that do slightly different things
* They must have different parameter list (regardless of return type of the method), due to java's compilation process.
* An example will be default constructor vs parameter constructor. If no arguments are passed to an object's constructor, then the default constructor is used. The parameter constructor is used otherwise.
* Note: This should not be confused with **method overriding**
	* Method overloading refers to having multiple methods in the same class with the same name but different parameter lists.
	* Method overriding means having a method in the child class with the same name and same parameter as the one in its parent class
	* The annotation @Override ensures method overriding. [[When to use @Override]]

### Public vs Private
 * The keyword "public" allows access to methods/variables outside of the class, whereas the keyword "private" forbids all access outside the class definition.
 * Using getter and setter allows more control, e.g. setter allows you to prevent illegal values from being set, like setYear() in the code example below.
 * Rule of thumb: make member variables private
 
### Code example
```java
// Car.java
public class Car {
// 	Member variables
	private String colour;
	private int year;
	
//	Default constructor
	public Car() {
		this.year = 2023;
		this.colour = "White";
	}
	
// Parameter constructor
	public Car(String colour, int year) {
		this.year = year;
		this.colour = colour;
	}
	
// Getters
	public int getYear() {
		return this.year;
	}
	
// Setters 
	public void setYear(int newYear) {
		if (1885 <= newYear) {
			this.year = newYear;
		}
		else {
			System.out.println("Car has not been invented yet you dum");
		}
	}
	
	public void printSpec() {
		System.out.println("Year: " + this.year + "  Coulour: " + this.colour );
	}
}



// Test.java
public class Test {
	public static void main(String args[]) {
		Car car1 = new Car("blue", 1998);
		Car car2 = new Car("black", 2014);
		car1.printSpec();
		car2.printSpec();
	}
}
// output: 
//Year: 1998 Colour: blue
//Year: 2014 Colour: black
```